# What The Ref? - an augmented game manual for FIRST Tech Challenge

The FIRST Tech Challenge game manual states, "the intent of this manual is
that the text means exactly, and only, what it says [...] if you have read
everything, you know everything". In practical, realistic experience as a FTC
Head Referee, I've come to disagree with this statement. This project is my
practical answer to the logistical quagmire of chasing down pages on end of
Q&As, ref forum posts, etc. prior to an event and reconciling the clarifications
(or outright modifications) found within, against the game manual, in hopes to
provide a more consistent refereeing experience for the students of FTC.

> FIRST, if you ever read this: please do for FTC what you already do for FRC.
Just diff the manual in weekly Team Updates. Mark the outgoing text in red,
mark the incoming text in green. Add blue boxes to clarify things teams have
asked about. In short: *make this repo useless*, or at least make it an HTML
alternative to the game manual that's mostly useful for accessibility reasons,
rather than an outright different user experience regarding event prep. I'll
even help you do the work if you'll let me. But in the meantime, I'll do this
work instead.

## Who Maintains This, Anyway?

I'm [Josh Klar](https://klar.sh), co-Senior Head Referee for FTC in Washington
State. My commitment for 2023-24 is that I will update these rulesets the
Thursday prior to any officially-sanctioned FTC event in Washington State,
and the week prior to the World Championship event in April. If you're a Head
Referee in some other region who has found this project and come to rely on it,
drop me an email and, if time allows, I'll do another update run, or you can
contribute the patches yourself on
[GitHub](https://github.com/klardotsh/what-the-ref),
[SourceHut](https://git.sr.ht/~klardotsh/what-the-ref), or by emailing me
whatever needs changed.

## Helpful Notes For Contributing

Rules, which are stored on disk as Markdown files, use a special link
destination to indicate interlinks (things which should link within What The
Ref to other things in the manual, and not to an external site), `!!`. For
example, `[ROBOT](!!)` would link to the glossary term for `ROBOT`, and
`[G404](!!)` would link to rule G404 in the in-match rules.

When converting FIRST rules from the manual into Markdown format, setting up
all these interlinks can be an exhausting process, so I recommend some clever
find-and-replace to help scriptify it. For example, in Vim, assuming I have a
visual mode selection of the lines of real rule text (eg. not the header or the
frontmatter), something like the following would automatically interlink any
matching strings, saving me tons of typing:

```
:'<,'>s/\(DRIVE TEAM\)/\[\1\]\(!!\)/gI
```

Hard-wrap your Markdown at 80 characters, please!

## Legal Blah-Blah-Blah

All rules content, images, media, and the branding of the games themselves,
are all copyright [FIRST Robotics](https://firstinspires.org). The licensing
of these resources is unclear, but my use of them here is intended as fair use
as a volunteer member of the program, to improve the consistency of refereeing
(and the quality of referee lives) across the program. Please don't come at me,
FIRST, there are bigger fish to fry.

All original text, imagery, etc., including the prose intepretations of
some rules, are licensed as closely to public domain as I can legally
muster in all jurisdictions, [Creative Commons Zero 1.0
Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/deed.en).

All code in this repository is likewise licensed as closely to public domain as
possible in the form of the [Zero-Clause BSD
License](https://opensource.org/license/0bsd/).

Don't use this code, prose, or any resources generated by them, for nefarious
purposes. This is a K12 education program for goodness' sake, be a good person.
