---
consequence_brief = "YELLOW or RED CARD"
matrix = ["YC", "RC"]
evergreen = true
---

# G211: Egregious or exceptional violations

Egregious behavior beyond what is listed in the rules or subsequent violations
of any rule or procedure during the event is prohibited.

In addition to rule violations explicitly listed in this manual and witnessed
by a [REFEREE](!!), the Head [REFEREE](!!) may assign a YELLOW or [RED
CARD](!!) for egregious [ROBOT](!!) actions or team member behavior at any time
during the event.

Continued violations will be brought to FIRST Headquarters’ attention. FIRST
Headquarters will work with event staff to determine if further escalations are
necessary, which can include removal from award consideration and removal from
the event.

Please see section 10.6.1 YELLOW and RED CARDS for additional detail.

> The intent of this rule is to provide the Head [REFEREES](!!) with the
> flexibility necessary to keep the event running smoothly, as well as keep the
> safety of all the participants as the highest priority. There are certain
> behaviors that automatically result in a YELLOW or RED CARD because this
> behavior puts the FIRST community at risk. Those behaviors include, but are
> not limited to the list below:
>
> 1. inappropriate behavior as outlined in the orange box of G201,
> 2. reaching into the [FIELD](!!) and grabbing a ROBOT during a MATCH,
> 3. [PINNING](!!) in excess of 15 seconds,
>
> The Head [REFEREE](!!) may assign a YELLOW or [RED CARD](!!) for a single
> instance of a rule violation such as the examples given in items above, or
> for multiple instances of any single rule violation. Teams should be aware
> that any rule in this manual could escalate to a YELLOW or [RED CARD](!!).
> The Head [REFEREE](!!) has final authority on all rules and violations at an
> event.
