---
consequence_brief = """
 Verbal warning, or if a subsequent violation within the tournament phase (e.g., \
 qualifications or playoffs), MAJOR FOUL applied to their upcoming MATCH. If the \
 DRIVE TEAM is not MATCH ready within 2 minutes of the verbal warning/MAJOR FOUL \
 and the Head REFEREE perceives no good faith effort by the DRIVE TEAM to quickly \
 become MATCH ready, DISABLED.
 """
matrix = ["W", "1xMa", "D"]
evergreen = true
---

# G301: Be prompt

A [DRIVE TEAM](!!) member may not cause significant delays to the start of
their [MATCH](!!). Causing a significant delay requires both of the following
to be true:

1. The expected [MATCH](!!) start time has passed, and

> During Qualification [MATCHES](!!), the expected start time of the
> [MATCH](!!) is the time indicated on the [MATCH](!!) schedule or ~3 minutes
> from the end of the previous [MATCH](!!) on the same [FIELD](!!), whichever
> is later. If [T206](!!) is in effect, the expected [MATCH](!!) start time is
> the later of the end of the [T206](!!) time or the time indicated on the
> schedule.
>
> During playoff [MATCHES](!!), the expected start time of the [MATCH](!!) is
> the time indicated on the [MATCH](!!) schedule or 8 minutes from either
> [ALLIANCE’S](!!) previous [MATCH](!!), whichever is later.

2. The [DRIVE TEAM](!!) has access to the [ARENA](!!) and is neither
   [MATCH](!!) ready nor making a good faith effort, as perceived by the Head
   [REFEREE](!!), to quickly become [MATCH](!!) ready.

> Teams that have violated [G207](!!) or have 1 [DRIVE TEAM](!!) member present
> and have informed event staff that their [ROBOT](!!) will not be
> participating in the [MATCH](!!) are considered [MATCH](!!) ready and not in
> violation of this rule.

> The intent of this rule is to provide an equitable amount of time for both
> [ALLIANCES](!!) to prepare for each [MATCH](!!) and give [DRIVE TEAM](!!)S
> grace given extenuating circumstances that cause them to be late.
>
> Once a verbal warning/MAJOR FOUL is issued, the Head [REFEREE](!!) starts a
> 2-minute timer and makes a good faith effort to share the timer’s status with
> the delaying [DRIVE TEAM](!!).
>
> Being “[MATCH](!!) ready” requires that the [ROBOT](!!) is on the
> [FIELD](!!), in its [STARTING CONFIGURATION](!!), and turned on.
> Additionally, the [DRIVE TEAM](!!) members must be in their starting
> positions.
>
> In general, good faith efforts to quickly become [MATCH](!!) ready are
> entirely for the purposes of transitioning the [ROBOT](!!) into a [MATCH](!!)
> ready state (i.e., not attempts to significantly alter a [ROBOT](!!)’S
> capabilities.) Examples of good faith efforts to quickly become [MATCH](!!)
> ready include but are not limited to:
>
> 1. walking safely towards the [FIELD](!!) with a [ROBOT](!!) that a team is
>    not actively modifying.
> 2. applying quick fixes such as tape or cable ties to make the [ROBOT](!!)
>    compliant with [STARTING CONFIGURATION](!!) requirements.
> 3. waiting for a DRIVER STATION device to boot.
