---
consequence_brief = """
 MAJOR FOUL and YELLOW CARD, or if opponent ROBOT is unable to drive, \
 then MAJOR FOUL and RED CARD.
 """
matrix = ["1xMa", "YC", "RC"]
evergreen = true
---

# G421: This is not combat robotics

A [ROBOT](!!) may not deliberately damage or deliberately functionally impair
an opponent [ROBOT](!!) as perceived by a [REFEREE](!!).

Damage or functional impairment because of contact with a tipped-over or
[DISABLED](!!) opponent [ROBOT](!!), which is not perceived by a [REFEREE](!!)
to be deliberate, is not a violation of this rule.

> FIRST Tech Challenge can be a high-contact competition and may include
> rigorous gameplay. While this rule aims to limit severe damage to
> [ROBOTS](!!), teams should design their [ROBOTS](!!) to be robust. Teams are
> expected to act responsibly.
>
> Examples of violations of this rule include, but are not limited to:
>
> 1. A [ROBOT](!!) high-speed rams and/or REPEATEDLY smashes an opponent
>    [ROBOT](!!) and causes damage. The [REFEREE](!!) infers that the
>    [ROBOT](!!) was deliberately trying to damage the opponent’s [ROBOT](!!).
>
> At the conclusion of the [MATCH](!!), the Head [REFEREE](!!) may elect to
> visually inspect a [ROBOT](!!) to confirm violations of this rule made during
> a [MATCH](!!) and remove the violation if the damage cannot be verified.
>
> "Unable to drive" means that because of the incident, the [DRIVER](!!) can no
> longer drive to a desired location in a reasonable time (generally). For
> example, if a [ROBOT](!!) can only move in circles, or can only move
> extremely slowly, the [ROBOT](!!) is considered unable to drive.
