---
[b]
consequence_brief = "|Major Penalty| for each offense."
matrix = ["1xMa"]

[g1]
consequence_brief = """
  No |Penalty| ppoints assessed. Opposing |Alliance| |Drone| receives points \
  for |Landing Zone| 1.\
  """

[g3]
consequence_brief = """
  Affected opposing |Alliance| |Drone| receives |Landing Zone| 1 points.\
  \
  Affecting own |Alliance|'s |Drone| results in no |Score| value for the \
  |Drone|.\
  """

[h]
consequence_brief = """
  |Drones| must |Park| |Completely Outside| of the |Playing Field Perimeter| \
  to |Score|.\
  """
---

# GS11: Drone Constraints

1. |Drones| are pre-loaded onto the |Robots| during Pre-Match setup as described
in section 4.4.1 or introduced into the |Playing Field| during the |Driver
Controlled Period| via the |Wing|.
2. A |Robot| may not |Possess| a |Drone| provided by another Team. A |Major
Penalty| will be assessed for violating this rule.
3. |Drones| |Launched| before the End Game have zero (0) |Score| value.
4. |Drones| may be |Launched| from |Suspended| |Robots|.
5. For each scoring attempt (Launch, fly, land), a |Launched| |Drone| must pass
over a |Rigging| or top pole of the |Stage Door| before it is eligible to |
Score| points.
6. To |Score| a Drone, the |Drone| must be in a legal configuration. Altering
a |Drone| after inspection or during |Match| play to better the chance of |
Scoring| is not in the spirit of this rule and will not be considered a |Scored|
|Drone|.
7. |Drone| Interference:
  1. A |Robot| may not affect the flight of an opposing |Alliance|'s |Drone|
  that is flying at a height above the height of the |Playing Field Wall|,
  approximately 11.5 inches (295 mm). The |Drone| that is affected will be
  awarded |Landing Zone| 1 points.
  2. Contact between two or more |Drones| in flight or In a |Landing Zone| is
not penalized.
  3. Drive Teams may not directly or indirectly affect the flight of a |Drone|.
  Affecting an opposing |Alliance| |Drone| will result in that |Drone| earning
  |Landing Zone| 1 points. Affecting their own |Drone|’s flight results in no
  points for that |Drone|.
  4. A |Drone| that contacts field personnel |In| a |Landing Zone| is awarded |
  Landing Zone| 1 |Score| value regardless of the final |Parking| location.
  5. A |Drone| that contacts field personnel that are |Outside| a |Landing Zone|
  or any object |Outside| the |Playing Field| has zero |Score| value regardless
  of the final |Parking| location.
8. |Drones| must be Parked |Completely Outside| the |Playing Field Perimeter| to
be eligible to |Score| points.
