# GS12: Human Player Constraints

Each violation of this rule results in a |Minor Penalty|.

1. |Drones| and |Pixels| |In| the |Pixel Storage Area| may not be handled
until after the |Match| has begun with the exception of the Pre-Load |Scoring
Elements|.
2. |Drones| and |Pixels| may be placed or dropped only |In| the |Wing| and
only during the |Driver-Controlled Period|. |Drones| and |Pixels| can be in
any orientation and may be in contact with other |Drones| or |Pixels| |In| the
|Wing|.
3. |Human Players| may place a maximum of two (2) |Pixels| or one (1) |Drone| |
In| a |Wing| at a time.
4. Once a |Pixel| or |Drone| has been placed in the |Wing|, a |Human Player| may
not pick it up or reposition it.
5. |Human Players| may not Propel |Pixels| or |Drones| |Out| of the |Wing|.
> |Human Players| should take care when releasing |Scoring Elements| into the |
Wing|. The final resting place of the |Pixel| or |Drone| is the responsibility
of the Human Player, regardless of what the |Pixel| or |Drone| hits as it is
released.
6. The |Human Player| may enter the area between the |Human Player Station| and
the adjacent |Playing Field Wall| while placing a |Pixel| or |Drone| |In| the |
Wing|, provided that it is done safely.
7. The |Human Player| may not use tools or devices (including another Pixel) to
manipulate a |Pixel| or Drone. Accommodations and exceptions for |Human Players|
with disabilities or extenuating circumstances will be made at the discretion of
the Tournament Director.
8. For safety reasons, a |Human Player| cannot break the vertical plane of the
|Playing Field Perimeter| or hand-deliver a |Pixel| or |Drone| to the |Playing
Field| when there is a |Robot| |In| the |Wing|. A |Disabled| |Robot| |In| an |
Alliance| | Wing| is not considered a safety hazard to the |Human Player|,
therefore |Drones| and |Pixels| may continue to be placed.
9. A Robot cannot enter the |Wing| while a |Human Player| is |In| the |Wing|.
> The intent of this rule is to prevent Robot to human contact and is meant to
ensure |Human Player| safety.
