---
qa_reviewed = true
references_rules = ["GS05", "GS10"]
---

# Q005: <GS05> line c) Control/Possession limit exceptions:

Q: |GS05| line c):
i. Knocking over a stack ... Pixels is allowed.
ii. Inadvertent and Inconsequential movement of a pre-set stack of unscored Pixels is allowed. Moving the stack Completely Off the tape is considered consequential.
iii. Plowing through ... is allowed.
Q1: Does the "Moving the stack Completely Off the tape" apply to the entire stack, or is a single pixel on the stack able to be moved  past the tape edge? Q2: If knocking over, can more than one pixel?

A: The intent of Rule |GS05|.c.(i&ii) is to allow reasonable |Robot| interaction with a |Pixel| stack without violating the |Pixel Control/Possession| limits described in rule |GS05|.a. The Rule |GS05|.c.i exception is for |Pixel(s)| knocked off of a stack and onto the |Playing Field Floor|. The Rule |GS05|c.ii exception is for the movement of three (3) or more of the pre-set stacked |Pixels| as a group that stay |On| the white tape line.

A1: Penalizing the movement of the |Pixel| stack applies when three (3) or more stacked |Pixels| are moved all together |Off| of the white tape line. Moving a "single |Pixel| from the stack past the tape edge" is allowed because it is less than the two (2) |Pixel Controller/Possession| limit described in rule |GS05|.a.

A2: Yes, the rule GS05.c.i exemption applies to any number of |Pixels| knocked off of the stack onto the |Playing Field Floor|. The knocked off |Pixels| are not subject to rule |GS05|.a constraints, even if they come to rest |Off| of the white tape line.

**Bonus Information**: |Pixels| in the pre-set stacks can't be |Propelled| per rule |GS10|.
