---
qa_reviewed = true
references_rules = ["GS05"]
---

# Q013: GS05 - Robot Control/Possession Limits for Pixels

Q: Please explain if these scenarios will be penalized:
Q1: Robot knocks a pixel stack down (GS05.c.i). These pixels are such that they are no longer stacked and are scattered singles.
Q2: Robot pushes 3/4/5 of the knocked down pixels into the backstage (GS05.c.iii).
Q3: The restriction seems to be, a robot can not move a stack of 3 or more pixels from the white line.
Q4: Scattered / knocked off pixels can be plowed. Is that accurate?

A: A1: No |Penalty|. Rule |GS05|.c.i allows a |Robot| to knock over a stack of unscored |Pixels|.

A2: The |Robot| will be penalized for violating rule |GS05|.a because it is |Controlling| more than two (2) |Pixels|. The |Pixels| in this scenario are |Herded|, a form of |Control|, by the |Robot| because the |Pixels| are pushed to a desired location that gains a strategic advantage beyond the |Robot| moving around the |Playing Field|. The |Pixels| in this scenario do not qualify for the rule |GS05|.c.iii exception for |Plowing|. See the definitions of "|Herding|" and "|Plowing|" in section 4.3 of Game Manual Part 2 to fully understand the difference between these game-specific terms. 

A3: Correct, a |Robot| will be penalized for moving a stack of three (3) or more |Pixels| |Off| of the white tape line per rules |GS05|.a and |GS05|c.ii.

A4: Yes, any quantity of "scattered/knocked off |Pixels|" can be |Plowed| per rule |GS05|.c.iii. See the definition of "|Plowing|" in section 4.3 of Game Manual Part 2 to gain an understanding of how to apply this game-specific term.
