---
qa_reviewed = true
---

# Q031: Are there any solutions/future plans to ensure metal field elements are grounded?

Q: The middle metal poles holding the truss, rigging, and stage door seem to have no way of electrically grounding themselves to outside of the field, so when metal on the robot touches these elements, there is a static discharge that cannot be avoided by teams. <RG01> i) states robots cannot ground themselves to the playing field, and a grounding strap doesn't help. Will there be any rules that ensure competition fields are set up to remove static build-up on these poles?

A: This may come as a shock (pun intended), but grounding the field may have the opposite effect that you intend. By grounding certain elements of the field you virtually guarantee that ESD shocks will be more intense and more frequent, as there will almost always be a large difference in potential between any floating object sliding/moving on the field (robot, game pieces, etc...) and the grounded elements. Understand also that the common wisdom of “touching metal” also doesn’t apply the same as it may have 5-6 years ago either - realize that virtually all aluminum extrusion on robots today is anodized, which is an electrically non-conducting coating on the extrusion. Older Tetrix anodized aluminum seems to have a thinner anodized layer, so it wears/scratches/rubs off more easily, and thus it was more likely that the aluminum would be electrically conductive and charge-accessible. This means you're not able to consistently rely on "metal" to "electrically connect" areas around the robot (i.e. thinking of the frame as a “wire” isn’t as applicable). Also the grounding strap is not meant to "ground" your robot, it's meant to attempt to equalize the potential between your electronics and areas of static build-up on the robot that the strap is connected to so that when ESD does happen the charge potential is hopefully small and thus has little to no effect. The [Managing ESD](https://ftc-docs.firstinspires.org/en/latest/hardware_and_software_configuration/configuring/managing_esd/managing-esd.html) article on ftc-docs has several recommendations for how teams can protect their robots. No one solution is a silver bullet, though, careful attention is key!

You’ve asked about what event organizers are doing to reduce ESD buildup on the fields. Heavy Duty Staticide is a staple for treating fields, especially those that are at high risk for static charge buildup like areas with extremely low humidity. This Heavy Duty Staticide has been proven to be extremely effective at significantly reducing (or eliminating) static charge buildup.
