---
qa_reviewed = false
---

# Q050: Followup Q13

Q: I am still not clear on Q13, as well as the how to apply rule GS05 in the game manual part 2.

1) GS05c. iii. - Plowing through any quantity of Scoring Elements is allowed.

2) GS05a. - Controlling or Possessing more than the allowed quantity of Scoring Elements is an immediate Minor Penalty.

I am looking for one example where plowing a robot through 3/4/5 elements does not violate rule GS05a, or does not belong to herding. I am unable to understand the use of GS05.c.iii.

A: Before proceeding with reading the following information, please review the game-specific definitions of the terms |Control|, |Possess|, |Herding|, and |Plowing| in section 4.3 of Game Manual Part 2. Applying the common or dictionary definitions of any game-specific term in section 4.3 may result in a misunderstanding of a scoring achievement requirement, rule, procedure, etc. Game-specific terms are easy to identify in the Game Manual because they have italics formatting and the first letter is capitalized. For example, the text "|Control|" has the correct formatting for a game-specific term. We strive to use this same formatting for defined terms contained in answers to gameplay questions in this forum.

Rule GS05.a limits the number of |Pixels| and |Drones| that a |Robot| can legally |Control| or |Possess|. This |Team's| question (!Q50) asks for an example of where |Plowing| through 3/4/5 |Pixels| does not violate rule GS05.a. The definition of |Control| specifically states that |Plowing| is not a form of |Control|. Therefore, all |Plowing| actions by a |Robot| do not violate the |Scoring Element Control/Possession| rule, GS05.a.

The second part of this |Team's| question asks for a |Plowing| scenario that is not |Herding|. Since |Plowing| actions and |Herding| actions are mutually exclusive, all |Plowing| actions are not |Herding|".

The following are gameplay examples that may be helpful:

Example 1: A |Robot| collects two |Pixels| from a |Pixel| stack. Since these are the only |Pixels Possessed| or |Controlled| by the |Robot|, rule GS05.a is not violated. The |Robot| drives directly through the |Truss| or |Stage Door| and stops |In| their |Alliance's Backstage|. Along the way to the |Backstage|, a stray |Pixel| on the |Playing Field Floor| is pushed by the |Robot| and it winds up |In| the |Backstage|. The |Robot| has now violated rule GS05.a because it |Possesses| two |Pixels| and it |Controlled| (|Herded|) the stray |Pixel| for a total of three (3) |Controlled Pixels|. The stray |Pixel| was |Herded| because it was moved to a location that provided the |Alliance| a strategic advantage since it was |Scored In| the |Backstage|.

Example 2: Same as Example 1, except when the |Robot| encounters the stray |Pixel|, it pushes the stray |Pixel| for a short distance. The |Drive Team| quickly realizes that the |Robot| just started to |Control| too many |Pixels|.  The |Drive Team| changes the |Robot's| direction of travel so that the |Robot| sheds the stray |Pixel|, leaving it behind on the |Playing Field Floor| while the |Robot| continues on its way to the |Backstage|. In this example, the stray |Pixel| was |Plowed| (i.e, it was not moved into a location that gave the |Alliance| a strategic advantage). Therefore, rule GS05.a is not violated.

If there is still uncertainty about how |Controlling|, |Possessing|, |Herding|, and |Plowing| apply to rule GS05, the Head Referee at your next competition will be happy to answer your questions during the |Drivers Meeting.| Demonstrating gameplay scenarios on a |Playing Field| is an excellent way to gain understanding of how to apply rules to complex scenarios.

||Pro Tip:|| |Drive Teams| have an obligation while driving their |Robots| around the |Playing Field| to avoid |Controlling| stray |Pixels| that would cause the |Robot| to violate rule GS05. In other words, |Robots| should maneuver around stray |Pixels| if their |Herding| would cause the |Robot| to exceed the allowed number of |Controlled Pixels|.

||Warning:|| Deliberately placing |Pixels| in locations on the |Playing Field Floor| to use rule GS05.a constraints as a strategy to increase the difficulty for an opposing |Alliance Robot| to move around the |Playing Field| violates rule G29.