---
qa_reviewed = false
---

# Q125: Communication Between the Drive Team Coach and the Human Player

Q: Q1: May the drive team coach use a white board or pre-printed signs to communicate with the human player on color and placement of pixels in the wing?
Q2: May the drive team coach move around the Alliance Station to be closer to the human player and then return to their drive team?

A: A1: Yes, |Drive Team| members may use signaling aids that satisfy the restrictions listed below. 

!Q111 provides the |Human Player| with guidance for using signaling aids. |Drive Team| members in an |Alliance Station| may also use signaling aids with additional restrictions to address safety and interference issues that arise from six (6) people occupying a confined space. Guidance for the |Human Player| is less restrictive due to the isolated, single occupant |Human Player Station|.

|Drive Team| members may use signaling aids when abiding by the following restrictions:

1) The signaling aids are not a safety hazard. For example, placing a signaling aid on the floor is a tripping hazard.

2) Small hand-held signaling aids, including white boards and pre-printed signs, are allowed.

3) The signaling aid may not be intentionally dropped or placed on the floor.

4) If the signaling aid is accidentally dropped, it will not harm the venue floor. 

5) The signaling aid and |Drive Team| member do not distract an opposing |Alliance Drive Team| per rule G16.c.

6) The |Drive Team| member doesn't reach |Into| the |Playing Field| per rule GS12.h.

7) The signaling aid doesn't use electronics of any type per rule G11.

8) Dropped or placed signaling aid(s) into the |Playing Field| are subject to rule G22.

A2: Yes, provided that the |Drive Team| member remains |In| their |Alliance Station| per rules G16 and G16a, and does not distract nor interfere with the opposing |Alliance’s Human Player| or |Drive Team| per rule G16.c.